as vaclav havel said work for something
because it is good not just because it
stands a chance to succeed this is
something that I think a lot of people
misunderstand they think that the goal
of their life is to identify something
that'll work to identify something that
has the odds stacked in its favour
rather than to think about what matters
what's important because if something is
important if it speaks to you if it's
going to give resonance to your life
then it's worth doing even if it's
something that is almost guaranteed to
fail when something matters enough
regardless of the odds it's worth
engaging with because even in the
pursuit you can find meaning and as
humans one of the things that we hunger
for most is purpose and meaning but you
can't have that purpose and meaning
without the thing that you're pursuing
be something that you believe to be
worthwhile so don't worry about whether
or not it succeeds ask only about
whether or not it's going to light you
on fire asked only if in those dark
moments that it will give you that sense
of mattering to this world that even in
the failure do you learn something about
yourself do you see the truth that you
matter and that even as a single person
even as one individual you can echo
through this world but that will never
happen by pursuing something small that
will never happen by pursuing something
simply because it can win it will only
happen by pursuing something that
matters and in that if you pursue
something that matters and you're able
to get to the point where you can see it
across the finish line or at least
advance it and make it a step closer to
becoming real in that we realize how
societies really are transformed in that
in trying the big the impossible
dreaming that thing that nobody else is
even willing to talk about in dreaming
that it is the crazy ones who are able
to change the world because the crazy
ones allowed them
to believe they allowed themselves to
believe that against all the odds a
world that does not yet exist could
actually exist and as Ralph Marcin said
welcomed those big stinky complicated
problems indem are your most powerful
opportunities and that's it the big
problems the ones that matter the things
that will give you purpose and meaning
in your life they're going to be hard
but if you can look at the hard things
and show up and push every day and keep
striving and when you fall down pick
yourself back up and focus only on one
thing not whether or not you're going to
win but whether or not it mattered that
you played if you do that every
sacrifice in your life will be worth it
and if not nothing you gain will have
mattered this Frederick Nietzsche said
many are stubborn and pursued the path
they have chosen few in pursuit of the
goal and that's one of the things that
really trips people up at the end of the
day a path is an option it's one of the
ways forward but it's the thing that
you're doing right now today so people
get really focused on that they make
their happiness built around that they
think about that as the thing but as the
old saying goes don't confuse the finger
with the moon that it's pointing at
that's where you've got to be really
careful at the end of the day the goal
is the thing that you're trying to
achieve the goal is what you're trying
to get the path is irrelevant the path
is really your best guess it's the thing
you think is going to work but if you
become my optically focused on that if
you think that the path really is the
end thing if you think the finger
actually
is the moon then you miss the objective
to which you're fighting for then you're
not gonna have the energy to keep
pushing when things get really hard
because you're going to have mistaken
the way of getting there with the
destination itself and I think that
people a lot of times throw hate on
having a destination on building towards
some big goal of having some grand thing
that they're chasing but as Einstein
said if you want to live a happy life
tie it to a goal not to people not to
things and the reason that he said that
people and things they change you've got
no control over them at the end of the
day the only thing that you really
control is yourself at the end of the
day the only thing that you can hope for
is to be going after something that has
meaning something that has purpose
something that really gives you a reason
for being that directs your actions that
becomes the filter by which you judge
everything that really becomes the
center the gravitational center of your
own universe but it's the goal
so what is it that you really want you
have to identify that to me everything
in life everything in life starts with
the goal and then work your way
backwards don't allow yourself to get
caught up in other people and putting
your happiness and somebody else in
finding purpose in something else and
trying to obtain things I would be
something that we're trying
of course have it be something that
you're trying to
once you're on the path to becoming
then you can find real you've got two
choices in life choice one you can
become somebody else choice - you can
become yourself now I really wish that
there was only one choice but in truth
there's not in most people choose to try
to become someone else because it's a
road map its points in the direction you
see someone you respond to something you
admire them you want to be like them and
in that process
you've made your decision in that
process you've decided to become
somebody else you have mistaken the
finger for the moon instead you need to
understand that being inspired by
somebody does not mean to become that
person to become that which inspires you
it is to understand fundamentally what
is it about that thing that excites you
what is it what is its essence and when
you can find its essence then you can
find out how it would apply to you
becoming you and as then she says flower
does not think about competing with the
flower next to it it just blooms and
that's really your job is to see the
outside world to see the flower next to
you to understand the amazing things
that are happening all around you all of
the incredible people and the essence of
what they have and what it is that
they've done to bring inside yourself
and find out what does that look like
when it's me not what do I look like
when I'm them and once you understand
the difference between that then you can
really begin to be something unique you
can become that thing that you were
meant to be that thing that makes you
feel alive and whole and that's it
that's the secret you're just trying to
be something not that's just inspiring
to other people but that you actually
want to wake up every day and be and
that's the [__] thing about it
so escaping you whatever you become a
lie the truth somebody else yourself
whatever it is it's been every day of
your life
there and as Albert Einstein said
everybody's a genius but if you judge a
fish by its ability to climb a tree it
will live it's whole life believing that
it's stupid and that's what confuses
people people believe that they're done
because they're not finding their path
they're not defining things based on
what excites them and what they want to
live with every day they're just looking
to what the outside world says is good
and I think it's incredible that there
are other people doing things that are
so extraordinary that we aspire to be
like that but you have to understand the
difference between being like someone
and trying to actually be
so if what inspires you is that somebody
works hard work hard if what inspires
you is that somebody gets up every time
they fail get up every time you fail if
what you like is that they're themselves
with all their weird eccentricities and
quirks then be true to your
eccentricities and quirks but don't try
to embody their eccentricities and
quarks that's the surest way to become
the fish that thinks it's stupid because
it's being judged by trying to climb a
tree so a Scott Belsky said when 99% of
the people doubt your idea you're either
gravely wrong or about to make history
and that's the terrifying part you're
not gonna know you're not gonna know the
difference but if you're chasing
somebody else's path if your whole game
is emulation if your whole game is to
mimic that which inspires you you will
never find the thing that's real about
you and look I don't know about you but
I can be wrong I can be gravely wrong I
can have people think me an idiot and
try something and fail as long as it was
true to me because then the lesson that
I'm gonna learn is going to apply it's
gonna take me an ever step closer to
actually being the person that I want to
become that I want to live with every
day I can't be
if I don't understand who I want to be
so look inward identify your path
identify what excites you and go after
it as if your life depends on it because
in truth it does
all right listen and listen well because
no truer words are ever gonna be [__]
spoken you can do anything you want
without limitation whatever it is that
you decide you want to make come true in
your life you can do that it is gonna
take an inhuman amount of work you're
gonna have to be prepared to break
yourself in half you are going to have
to learn more than anyone has ever
learned you're gonna have to push
yourself harder than anyone has ever
asked you to push yourself before you're
gonna go way beyond your breaking point
you're gonna run until you vomit you're
gonna study until you fall asleep you're
going to push and push and push and then
you're going to push some [__] more
and when you hit the limit you're gonna
push again beyond that you're gonna
force yourself to an adaptation response
and why because it's Malcolm X said the
future belongs to those who prepare for
it today so if you don't put the work in
today if you don't do the unending
back-breaking work of developing
yourself into something greater the
world is gonna pass you by the people
that are going to own it are gonna be
the ones that did that work and the one
promise that I can make you right now is
that somebody somebody out there is out
working somebody right now is doing the
things that I'm saying somebody right
now is doing the work of failure and
getting up and getting better and
pushing themselves and triggering that
glorious adaptation response that makes
humans the apex predator someone right
now they're putting in that work
and if you don't the future is gonna
belong to them and as Martin Luther King
jr. said you can't fly than one if you
can't run then walk if you can't walk
then crawl but whatever you do you have
to keep moving forward it's not okay to
make excuses it's not gonna slow people
down it's not okay to ask the world to
stop so that you can step out front it's
not okay
to expect little of yourself and demand
great rewards the only thing that's okay
is to be in line with the way that the
world really works and if you want to be
great you've got to become capable of
greatness you've got to develop your
skill set you've got to take what you
have now and if that's crawling then
[__] crawl but you drag yourself ever
forward to a vision of yourself that is
so clear and so specific that nothing
could knock you off your path because
you my friend know
exactly where you're going you're
willing to pay whatever price it takes
to get there and no matter what anybody
says no matter how many [__] hecklers
come for you no matter how many people
try to fill dirt on you try to stop you
try to knock you down no matter how many
[__] people come for you at night
while you sleep you will rise and you
will keep pushing forward and you will
get better every day and no matter how
many times people chop at you knock you
down knock you up the path we will get
back on you will crawl so you can walk
you will walk till you run and then you
will run until you fly and that my
friends is the only path forward so if
you want a [__] future that makes you
happy if you want a world that you're
excited about get your ass out there and
earn it
as ernest hemingway noted the world
breaks everyone and afterward many are
stronger in the broken places but my
question is why isn't everyone to me it
comes down to the strategies that you
use there really isn't anything
objectively good or bad there isn't
anything that happens to you that can't
be overcome there isn't anything that
could happen to you anything that when
you turn inward you can't find a reason
to overcome you can't find a way to put
those pieces back together and that
becomes your job it becomes literally up
to you whether you're going to sit and
wallow and woe is me because what
happened happened and there's no way to
take it back but how you respond what
you bring to that table whether you meet
fire with fire whether you meet that
adversity with falling apart becoming
weaker in the areas that broke or you
bind them and mend them and it becomes
like a weld that literally makes you
stronger is a choice and it's a choice
only
you get to make but as Stephen Hawking
said when you complain nobody wants to
help you there are many things in your
life do you have every reason to
complain about you have every reason to
be upset by the things that have
happened to you the most sinister thing
about excuses is they're valid there's a
million reasons why you should be able
to give up there's a million reasons why
you shouldn't need to try that thing
that broke you you should be allowed to
just sit on the ground and here's the
thing that's your right
you have every reason to do it and maybe
people won't even think less of you but
here's the truth you either become
weaker or stronger in the places that
broke and that's a choice of how you
react moving forward the great news is
the best thing that you could do to
become stronger is love yourself and as
Kamal Ravi Kahn said loving yourself as
a practice people think that it's
something that's gonna feel right that
it's gonna feel natural that you're just
gonna turn inward and there it is this
spark of love and joy for yourself
inside yourself and the truth is that's
just not the human experience that's not
the way that it works there's gonna be a
voice inside your head and it's going to
blame you it's gonna say that it's your
fault and no matter how many times
people on the outside tell you that that
is not true that this thing happened to
you that it isn't you it doesn't define
you there will be a voice that's going
to tell you that it does and that's
where you have to fall back on process
that's where you have to realize that
you literally
have to practice loving yourself and
that it's okay that no matter what
happened there is absolutely nothing
that invalidates that you're worthy of
your own love but you've got to practice
it you've got to be willing to do it
you've got to be willing to put in the
reps you've got to know that it's not
gonna feel right but you've got to know
on the other side of that is a vision of
your life where you actually do love
yourself because you took the time to
say it you took the time to practice it
you took the time to sit there and feel
stupid and say that you love yourself
and sometimes just putting in the work
is what you need to do to get strong so
put in the work as Daniel ping said
people fail to achieve mastery not
because they aren't talented but because
they aren't disciplined the wonderful
news about the human condition is you
can get good at anything that you set
your mind to it's just not gonna be easy
and it's not gonna be fast but the
willingness to put in that work is
what's going to separate you from
everybody else and I'm begging you to
see yourself right now today as average
as know better than anyone else but I
beg you with more force than I know how
to convey with this language to see
yourself as malleable to see yourself as
capable of becoming anything you want to
become to become truly extraordinary if
you can find within yourself the
discipline to stick with it long enough
and as Steve Martin said perseverance is
a great substitute for talent everybody
wants to talk about who's talented
everybody looks at the person with
innate talent as if they have something
magical
but to me it's a gift it's a handout
it's a 3b it hasn't been earned and no
matter what it is it's only the
beginning even somebody that has talent
even if you get an early win if you let
somebody outwork you if you let somebody
who has more perseverance more grit than
you than they are going to outperform
you on a long enough timeline the only
thing I can guarantee is you will be
outwork by somebody unless you pour your
heart and soul into getting great if you
don't take days off if you put yourself
into it as if your life depended on it
when you act like that then you've got a
chance to be great and as Robert Horry
said pressure can bust pipes but it can
also make diamonds you've got to want
that pressure you've got to want things
to be hard you can't seek out the easy
life you can't just hope and pray that
you can uncover inside of you some
talent that's lay dormant that you
didn't know about that's gonna let
things be easy for you don't want the
easy want the hard what the pressure
want the thing that's going to turn you
into something because when it's easy
you don't work for it when it's easy you
don't push when it's easy you get
surpassed by the person who has to give
it their all who's prepared to do blood
sweat and tears in order to become that
thing that they want to be so badly
because they are so [__] angry that
they were never given anything and with
that chip on their shoulder they're
determined to become anything that they
set their mind to so whether you have
talent whether you don't the only thing
that matters is will you persevere
will you stick with it long enough to
get great
[Music]
as Thomas Jefferson said he who knows
best knows just how little he knows this
has been one of the most surreal things
about my experience as an entrepreneur
is that the better I get at it the more
that I do the more I feel lost the more
I feel like there's too much for me to
possibly know and understand and in that
is my power that's literally the source
of my power because I understand that my
journey is one of learning I understand
that as navall Ravi Kant said the
genuine love for reading itself when
cultivated is a superpower the means of
learning are abundant it's the desire to
learn that scarce but if you have that
desire if you cultivate that desire to
learn if you accept that you're in this
big world that is far too big for you to
understand every piece of it but in
recognizing that you don't understand it
all and putting yourself on this quest
to learn obsessively to get better to
fall in love with the actual process of
gaining knowledge if you stay hungry for
that at all times and you don't calcify
your thoughts into Dogma but rather stay
fresh stay naive stay hungry and foolish
to really learn and grow then you
actually obtain power and this is the
part I want people to understand look
past the words and hear what I'm really
saying as you take on the knowledge as
you're learning one thing after another
after another those skills have
practical application and it is that
practical application born of
understanding how little you really know
that allows you to become far more
powerful than the people that think they
know because when they think they know
they stop growing and they think they
know they calcified
when they think they know their thoughts
get brittle like bone and break but we
you think you have to learn everything
when you're really just trying to figure
out if something works if it gets you
the result then those skills become real
they become tested by what you're doing
they are boundless because you're always
trying to find that next thing you're
never self-satisfied you're never self
congratulatory you're simply asking
where do I want to go what skills do I
need to acquire to get there and knowing
that each one of those that you get
brick by brick by brick builds a real
path to where you want to go so fall in
love with the idea that you know nothing
fall in love with the idea that learning
is a superpower fall in love with that
hunger want that want to get better
every day never never be tricked by the
desire to be self-satisfied be never be
tricked by the desire to be great today
never fool yourself into thinking who
you are today is who you can become
I don't care how far you've come I don't
care how many accomplishments are in
your rear view mirror if you fall prey
to that your past will always be bigger
than your future and there's one mandate
that I make of myself and anyone else
that wants to be around me your future
must always be bigger than your past and
the only way for that to be true is to
love how little you really know and to
love how much you can learn
if you just keep going
as Oprah Winfrey said what you dwell on
is what you become once you understand
that humans are the ultimate adaptation
machine and you understand that the
brain actually builds faster and better
connections between the things that you
think on you will begin to understand
that it is incredibly important to be
thoughtful about what you think about
it's incredibly important to pick a
direction that you want to grow and to
decide who you want to become and then
make that the center of your focus your
thoughts your time your energy and if
you look inward or if you look outward
and you don't like what you see remember
what Jim Rohn said if you don't like how
things are change it you're not a tree
and that's the beauty that's the
beautiful thing about being a human we
are so plastic and we can change so
dramatically we are so good at adapting
that we forget that's literally what we
do but if you can take control of that
process if you can grab ahold of it and
make it your own if you can make it your
daily obsession to make the most of your
potential to pick a very specific
direction to pick an end goal and end
state and end identity and work your way
backwards find out the steps that you're
going to need to take to get there to
execute and have the willingness to put
in the work to have the willing
to be both the sculptor and the clay to
understand that the suffering that comes
with that of changing yourself of making
yourself into something great is a
suffering well working it's a suffering
that you should embrace it's a suffering
that you should run towards because in
that suffering you can become anything
you want so start to dwell on that dwell
on a vision of you being great dwell on
a vision of you accomplishing your goals
dwell on a vision of you having done
this amazing thing that you want to do
dwell on an image of you being willing
to sweat and bend yourself in half and
break if need to and bleed when
necessary to become the vision of
yourself you always knew you could
become dwell on that and nothing can
stop you
as epictetus said he is a wise man who
does not grieve for things which he has
not but rejoices for those which he has
and that's gratitude isn't it it's the
very base decision that we all have to
make are you grateful for the things you
have in your life or are you always
wanting more and trust me I get it I
understand people that strive for more I
understand people that want something
bigger and better but at the same time
if you allow yourself to only think
about what you don't have to only be
striving for something more that that
obsession will begin to overtake you it
will begin to corrode you but ultimately
it's a choice ultimately at any time
right now in this moment you can stop
and think about what you have you can
put your attention on the things you're
grateful for and watch what it does
watch what it does in that instance the
way that it changes you the way that it
changes your chemistry your feelings in
a moment can shift from negative and
dark to beautiful with nothing else
changing around you nothing but you
deciding that you're gonna focus on the
things you're grateful for nothing but
deciding that there are things in your
life to be grateful for and that is a
decision no matter what is happening in
your life at any moment right now in the
depths of a depression in something
going on terribly in your life you can
choose right now to think about the
things you're grateful for
the breeze a smile from somebody kind a
stranger who holds open a door for you
anything but it's a choice and as
Einstein said there are only two ways to
live your life
one is as though nothing is a miracle
the other is as though everything is a
miracle and what choice are you making
what are you choosing to focus on right
now do you let gratitude fill you up or
not and here's the critical part and I
want you to listen to this really well
whatever you decide whether you decide
we live in a
of miracles or whether we decide to live
in a world devoid of miracles you were
choosing one thing to the exclusion of
the other and when you focus on
something that you're grateful for when
you look at those little moments in your
life and choose to see them as grand
miracles even whinny there's only a
gentle hand on your shoulder even then
it's only a kiss from somebody who
you've kissed a thousand times before
even when it is only holding the hand of
somebody who needed their hand held even
when it's something that simple
[Music]
it really is a miracle that it really is
something that can fill you it really is
something that will change your
chemistry bring a connection between two
people allow you to see a grander Vista
or even just open a window and look out
at the world and realize that you're
alive that this is all a miracle that
none of this is guaranteed that every
breath you take could be your last and
in that you can choose to cherish what
you have in that you can decide to focus
on that you have a breath to take and
even when it's something that simple
when you train your mind to do that when
you train yourself to decide to see the
beauty in that that nobody can ever take
it away from you and matter where you
are no matter what's going on in your
life you'll be able to rise up and feel
the beauty that is being alive so take a
minute at the worst times in your life
and focus on the things you're grateful
for
I want you to burn into your nervous
system the following statement because
it is a fundamental truth of the human
condition it is literally the base line
physics of what it means to be a person
as Earl Nightingale said we become what
we think about and that's an idea that I
want you to hold firmly in your mind
that's something that I really want you
to internalize I really want you to stop
right now whatever you're doing I want
you to stop lean into this video and
listen to what I'm saying you will
become what you think about really think
about that for a second as if it wasn't
just a phrase as if it's more than just
words as if it were a truth about how
the brain works because it is you're
going to become the thing that you think
about and I know that you're dwelling on
a lot of negative [__] I know that
you're carrying a lot of baggage with
you and I know that as you think about
how things might go wrong that you
believe you believe to the core of your
being that you're just planning for the
hard times but the truth is you're going
to become those things that you fear
you're going to become the things that
you dread if you're thinking about all
the things you've done wrong in the past
you are going to simply continue that
cycle but if on the other hand and let
this be true let this ring in your ears
with the weight of everything that I
carry if I've ever added an ounce of
value to you if anything I have ever
said it seemed remotely true believed
that these are the most important words
I'm ever going to save you if you begin
to focus on positive things if you begin
to focus on your capabilities if you
begin to focus on a potential that you
have if you really dig in build those
skills drive towards something beautiful
something amazing something that leaves
you in awe but you want to create that
you want to become the vessel for that
then you will you will become that thing
because you will take those steps
because you become what you think about
and as Mark Twain said 20 years from now
you'll be more disappointed by the
things that you didn't do so if you
don't take those steps if you don't
focus on those things if you don't
manifest what you want to become if you
don't believe in it if you don't see how
real it could be if you can't picture
the version of yourself that you want to
become and even though people have told
you that it's not possible for you that
the things you did in the past are never
going to allow you to do that but you're
not smart enough if you let that creep
into your mind then that's what's gonna
happen but if you can see that vision if
you can allow yourself to believe it
then you're going to take the steps that
you need to execute against that and if
you go out there and do those things you
won't regret it but you will regret it
if you don't
so get out right now and build the
person you want to be so you can have
the life you want to have
[Music]
you